Data will help you to improve quality of life for people you support: Improving quality is first and foremost among the reasons why organizations should be using data. By allowing you to measure and take action, an effective data system can enable your organization to improve the quality of people’s lives.
Data = Knowledge. Good data provides indisputable evidence, while anecdotal evidence, assumptions, or abstract observation might lead to wasted resources due to taking action based on an incorrect conclusion.
Data allows you to monitor the health of important systems in your organization: By utilizing data for quality monitoring, organizations are able to respond to challenges before they become full-blown crisis. Effective quality monitoring will allow your organization to be proactive rather than reactive and will support the organization to maintain best practices over time.
Data allows organizations to measure the effectiveness of a given strategy: When strategies are put into place to overcome a challenge, collecting data will allow you to determine how well your solution is performing, and whether or not your approach needs to be tweaked or changed over the long-term.
Data allows organizations to more effectively determine the cause of problems. Data allows organizations to visualize relationships between what is happening in different locations, departments, and systems. If the number of medication errors has gone up, is there an issue such as staff turnover or vacancy rates that may suggest a cause? Looking at these data points side-by-side allows us to develop more accurate theories, and put into place more effective solutions.

Data is a key component to systems advocacy. Utilizing data will help present a strong argument for systems change. Whether you are advocating for increased funding from public or private sources, or making the case for changes in regulation, illustrating your argument through the use of data will allow you to demonstrate why changes are needed.
Data will help you explain (both good and bad) decisions to your stakeholders. Whether or not your strategies and decisions have the outcome you anticipated, you can be confident that you developed your approach based not upon guesses, but good solid data.
Data increases efficiency. Effective data collection and analysis will allow you to direct scarce resources where they are most needed. If an increase in significant incidents is noted in a particular service area, this data can be dissected further to determine whether the increase is widespread or isolated to a particular site. If the issue is isolated, training, staffing, or other resources can be deployed precisely where they are needed, as opposed to system-wide. Data will also support organizations to determine which areas should take priority over others.
Data allows you to replicate areas of strength across your organization. Data analysis will support you to identify high-performing programs, service areas, and people. Once you identify your high-performers, you can study them in order to develop strategies to assist programs, service areas and people that are low-performing.